Challenge: warmup1
Category: Pwn
Description:

Honestly to me this was not warm-up, but it was some challenge that I learned from for sure. Looking at the binary protections, PIE, NX, and Full
RELRO are deployed. I took the time to review what each protection was, but the one in particular that I had to focus on this chall was PIE, or
Position Independent Executables. Basically, the binary is compiled so that when you look at it statically without running it at first, the addresses
of the code are actually just offsets, and when the code runs, it basically is ASLR implemented, messing up all the addresses each time it runs.
However, 3 of the least significant nibbles (fyi nibble is 4 bits) remain unchanged. This is important for the exploit I used to solve the chall
later on. At first, I thought of getting a leak like how I usually get on for a ret2libc attack, but there were no output functions I could use, and
even if there were, there was no way I could get the right addresses because again, PIE messes up all the addresses, including the GOT and PLT.
Looking up a few write-ups of previous challenges and pwn.college for bypassing PIE, I found the best play was to use a partial overwrite. The
technique only requires that you overwrite just some, but not all of a location of memory that you can write to so that you can get control of the
program flow. Going back to the nibbles idea I mentioned earlier, what I found I could do was partially overwrite the instruction pointer because it
loads up an intruction from the stack (where the win function lies) and using the offset I saw when statically analyzing the binary, I would use it
to overwrite just 2 bytes of the pointer. The tricky thing was that the most significant first nibble changes, so what I had to do was keep trying
just one nibble (could be any value) over and over until the binary accepted it and went to the win function. With that, after some painful
debugging of my exploit, I got my flag. Woop Woop!

Flag: maple{buwuffer_owoverflow_UwU}
Solved by giggsterpuku 1 day in

