Challenge: SideChannel
Category: Forensics
Description: There's something fishy about this PIN-code checker, can you figure out the PIN and get the flag? Download the PIN checker program here pin_checker Once you've figured out the PIN (and gotten the checker program to accept it), connect to the master server using nc saturn.picoctf.net 52680 and provide it the PIN to get your flag.
Hints:
	-1: Read about "timing-based side-channel attacks."
	-2: Attempting to reverse-engineer or exploit the binary won't help you, you can figure out the PIN just by interacting with it and measuring certain properties about it.
	-3: Don't run your attacks against the master server, it is secured against them. The PIN code you get from the pin_checker binary is the same as the one for the master server.

Looking up what a side channel attack is, I found that it is a type of
attack that exploits the implementation of a program instead of the
vulnerabilities of the program itself. In other words, it focuses on
the blackboxing the program rather than trying to reverse engineer it
and recording its behavior through responses made from the program due to
user input. I then looked into timing attacks, which I found are a specific
kind of side channel attacks that focus mainly on observing the response
time of the program. The idea or cracking the PIN for the program is that
when the program makes a comparison of the user input with the correct
PIN, it will check the length first, then it will go character by
character, first to last in that order, to check if the input is correct.
To get the PIN, I used a script to measure out the response times for
each number in the PIN, and I found it by finding which number in each
position in the PIN made the program take the longest time to check.
The more correct the PIN from first to last, the longer the response time
is for the program since it takes more time to check the numbers if some
of the previous numbers are correct. The PIN ended up being 48390513, and I
used it to get the flag. Really cool thing to learn, timing attacks are.

Flag: picoCTF{t1m1ng_4tt4ck_eb4d7efb}
Points: 400
Solved by giggsterpuku 9 days into comp
